flow docs: document config blocks and `logging` (#2135)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/reference/config-blocks/logging.md

---

# `logging` block

`logging` is an optional configuration block used to customize how Grafana
Agent produces log messages. `logging` is specified without a label and can
only be provided once per configuration file.

> **NOTE**: Configuration blocks are not components, so expressions which
> reference the exports of components may not be used.

## Example

```river
logging {

>   level  = "error"

Author: Maybe this should document the default setting instead?

```suggestion
  level  = "info"
```

  format = "logfmt"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`level` | `string` | Level at which log lines should be written | `"info"` | no
`format` | `string` | Format to use for writing log lines | `"logfmt"` | no

### Log level

The following log levels are recognized:

* `error`: Only write logs at the "error" level.
* `warn`: Only write logs at the "warn" level or above.
* `info`: Only write logs at "info" level or above.
* `debug`: Write all logs, including "debug" level logs.

### Log format

The following log line formats are recognized:

* `logfmt`: Write logs as [logfmt][] lines.
* `json`: Write logs as JSON objects.

[logfmt]: https://brandur.org/logfmt

## Log location

Grafana Agent writes all logs to `stderr`.

> When running Grafana Agent as a systemd service, logs will also be sent to

Author: Yeah, that's a good point. I'm not sure how it _actually_ works (Grafana Agent always rights logs to stderr, but the platform it's running on might redirect that to a file) but I'll try to rephrase to make that more obvious.

> When running Grafana Agent as a systemd service, logs will also be sent to

Author: @tpaschalis Rephrased it (and mentioned Docker/Kubernetes), PTAL 🙏

---

# `logging` block

`logging` is an optional configuration block used to customize how Grafana
Agent produces log messages. `logging` is specified without a label and can
only be provided once per configuration file.

> **NOTE**: Configuration blocks are not components, so expressions which
> reference the exports of components may not be used.

## Example

```river
logging {
  level  = "info"
  format = "logfmt"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`level` | `string` | Level at which log lines should be written | `"info"` | no
`format` | `string` | Format to use for writing log lines | `"logfmt"` | no

### Log level

The following log levels are recognized:

* `error`: Only write logs at the "error" level.

> * `warn`: Only write logs at the "warn" level or above.

Author: WDYT @karengermond?

* `info`: Only write logs at "info" level or above.
* `debug`: Write all logs, including "debug" level logs.

### Log format

The following log line formats are recognized:

* `logfmt`: Write logs as [logfmt][] lines.
* `json`: Write logs as JSON objects.

[logfmt]: https://brandur.org/logfmt

## Log location

Grafana Agent writes all logs to `stderr`.

When running Grafana Agent as a systemd service, logs written to `stderr` can

> be viewed through `journald`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through `journald`.
```

> When running Grafana Agent as a container, logs written to `stderr` can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running Grafana Agent as a container, view logs written to `stderr`
```

viewed through `docker logs` or `kubectl logs`, depending on if Docker or
Kubernetes was used for deploying the agent.

When running Grafana Agent as a Windows service, logs are instead written as

> event logs and can be viewed through Event Viewer.

Reviewer 2: nit: add "Application event logs"

Author: Like this?

> When running Grafana Agent as a Windows service, logs are instead written as
application event logs and can be viewed through Event Viewer.

> In other cases, users must redirect `stderr` of the Grafana Agent process to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other cases, redirect `stderr` of the Grafana Agent process to a
```
